---
# basic post options
title: I created simple JavaScript web apps...
description: This is the result of 2 weeks of vacuum, 3 days of quick-learning JavaScript. A few apps were made!
categories: [Web Development]
tags: [JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PWA]

# post components
comments: true

# post header options
header:
  fullscreen: false
  image: /assets/img/site/header/blog.jpg
  unsplash:
    author: 
    username: 

# post sharing options
sharing:
  fb: After 2 weeks of vacuum, and a few days of learning JavaScript, this is what I learned so far.
  li: After 2 weeks of vacuum, and a few days of learning JavaScript, this is what I learned so far.
  tw: After 2 weeks of vacuum, and a few days of learning JavaScript, this is what I learned so far.

# advanced post options
layout: post
---

On the first glance: I wish I could learn JavaScript sooner. On the second thought: I think it's not too late to learn JavaScript, as Deno (the successor of Node.js) was recently released. And, because of that, I think it was a good start to quick learn. Though, it took me 2 weeks in vacuum as a consequence.

Thankfully, [this JavaScript tutorial from FreeCodeCamp.org tutorial by Ania Kubów](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAUn1Lom6dw) made me able to dive into how JavaScript works. Since then, I'm able to make a few.

## Things I've made

- Tetris JS: The very first JavaScript app that I've ever made, was Tetris -- through tutorial I've mentioned above.
- Calculator JS: The very basic calculator app using JavaScript. Can be input using keyboards, too!

The details are as follows.

### Tetris

DEMO: [Tetris JS](https://js-tetris.eas.web.id)

This is the first web game I've made, using JavaScript. It has the most basic features, since it's still on version 1, and has basic CSS styling through Tailwind CSS, loaded through CDN.

After I made this game, however, I feel like there are some improvements that I can do, like:

- Adding indicator whether the game is paused,
- Better indicator when the game is over,
- Adding touch controls when being opened on mobile,
- ~~Adding more common Tetriminos like S-shape and inverted L-shape~~
- ~~Simplifying HTML structure by adding looping for repeating `<div class="grid">` tag,~~
- ~~Pushing `Space` key just once to insta-put down the Tetrimino into bottom area, instead of repeatedly pressing it,~~
- ~~Fixing bug where Tetrimino is generated several rows below where it supposed to be (depending on how many rows I cleared with last Tetrimino),~~
- ~~Fixing another bug where Tetrimino shouldn't be able to move and regenerate another next Tetrimino when the game is paused,~~
- Better styling, and
- Last but not least: PWA.

Even though, this mini game has one or more bugs, like:

- Tetrimino warped to the right edge when user rotates the Tetrimino.

These to-dos will be updated over time, so it's worth checking it by visiting my [Tetris JS repository here](https://github.com/easterneas/js-tetris).

### Calculator

DEMO: [Calculator JS](https://js-calculator.eas.web.id)

The very basic calculator app that can perform most basic instructions.

The quirk of this app, though:

- You might need to type asterisk twice to perform exponent expression, and
- When you encounter 'Infinity' result, you need to clear the result screen by pressing 'C' button.
  
Same as JS Tetris, this will be updated along the way, so you can check it out by visiting [my Calculator repository here](https://github.com/easterneas/js-calculator).

## Things I can improve

There are so many JavaScript functions that I still have to learn, but it's so fun to learn something new. I might want to create the basic tutorial about JavaScript in the future, so stay tuned!
